# SEEDR

User Interface

Master_Plant_Info 

Filter, slice, copy, download. Do anything to these data (even accidentally delete!, they’re easy to rebuild).

The database is a simple wrangle that searches for matching plant species information from an input plant list within any tabular dataset containing a plant species scientific name and returns columns which have been “mapped” to select for pertinent information.

This database currently searches tabular data originating from WF, MNPS, RNGR, and MPG See Data Wrangling Writeup below. Any tabular data coded with a plant scientific name can be imported and “mapped” to appear in a new or existing sheet within Master_Plant_Info.
Backend- Creating new data or adding new species to lookup
Add species to an existing list or make a list of plants you want to search for
Create a google sheet with any species list you want to find information for
Must have plant scientific name
That’s it, but you can include any other columns you want as well
Upload to raw_wrangled insert in new sheet and name it anything

Add new tabular data to the database
Create a google sheet with a plant scientific name and any number of columns containing info
Upload to ‘raw_wrangled’, insert in new sheet and name it anything






















Map the source information
Use sheet ‘data_map’ in “raw_wrangled” to code columns from  your new dataset. 
Use an existing variable name from the column ‘standardized_info’ or make one that fits better
Copy your variables (column names) exactly as they appear in the new data you uploaded, paste them in the ‘source_info’ column
Code each new source_info for where it originated i.e. “faist lab”, USDA Plants, TRY, SER ID…





Sync new data

Option 1 )Ask Chuck to run the R script with your new sheet names to refresh or add a new sheet to the “Master_Plant_Info” google sheet. 

Option 2) Edit and run the wrangling script in R that builds “Master_Plant_Info”. For now we are just downloading and uploading edits to the script manually in google drive. We might transfer the wrangling code to GitHub or Google Colab in the future. 
	
	Give Google permission for Tidyverse API



Download R script here 

Open and edit the R script to add data to database, create a new plant list, and clean or wrangle any data.

Next steps

Use this wrangling, cleaning, aggregating script to build a more discrete database that can be used in analysis.
Interpret funky, disjointed information provided by each data source and transform into a discrete variable. I.e. germination treatments calling for acid scarification get tranformed into new columns such as “dormancy> dormant” and “dormancy_type > physical”. 


Data Wrangling Writeup
data_wrangling  - folder Google Drive
Extract 
MNPS
This dataset was pulled from the Montana Native Plant Society (MNPS) Landscape and Revegetation Committee. MNPS is a non-profit orginzation founded in 1987 aimed to conserve, preserve, and to study native plants of Montana. 
The spreadsheet created by Mark Majerus and published on the MNPS website on seed data was converted from a PDF into google sheets.
PDF was converted into the Google Spreadsheet at around January 2024
RNGR
Reforestation, Nurseries and Genetic Resources (RNGR) is a website designed to supply the latest technical information for projects that involve forest and conservation projects.
A PDF of seed trait data was able to be extracted and incorporated into google sheets.
The RNGR seed trait spreadsheet often has multiple sources describing various traits throughout the sheet. As a result, there are multiple rows for most of the species being described. Sometimes different descriptions within species can be contradictory with one another. 
Converted PDF to Google Sheets in January 2024
WF
Western Forbs (WF) is an online book that has compiled 20 years of research based mostly on forbs. The data in this website is designed to aid restoration projects.
Species information is complied using known biology, ecology, seed technology, 
Data converted to Google Sheets around January 2024
MPG
MPG-sourced data has been collected from a variety of sources from seed catalogs, literature, USDA plants.
Original data sources are not well documented as of December 2024
Going forward, plant information generated by MPG will be indicated in the Master_Plant_Info table
